Document the automated release process (#381)
ansible-community/ansible-build-data: docs/automated-process.md

Reviewer: See https://github.com/ansible-community/ansible-build-data/blob/main/docs/CONVENTIONS.md. The Semantic Line Breaks standard says

> A maximum line length of 80 characters is RECOMMENDED.

which I have applied to the rest of the files in the `docs` directory.

Author: 7fdf5aab2beb02571c53a6cbd1d70c140c388270

> # Automated Ansible Release Process

Reviewer 2: We could make this a more action-oriented title. Maybe something like:
```suggestion
# How to release a new version of the Ansible Community Package - Automated Release Process
```
That gets wordy, though.

Author: Changed in 5ad0ad71749cb2907b8cdd6115246bbd5d9b8045.

## Preamble

> This document describes the (mostly) automated ansible community package release process.

Reviewer 2: I'd add a link here to the docs for the manual process.

Author: Inserted in 5ad0ad71749cb2907b8cdd6115246bbd5d9b8045.

!!! note
    Throughout this page, placeholder values in code blocks are formatted as

>     `${PLACEHOLDER_VALUE}` where `PLACEHOLDER_VALUE` describes the value to fill in.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    `${PLACEHOLDER_VALUE}` where `PLACEHOLDER_VALUE` describes the value to specify.
```

Reviewer 3: "Fill in" might be a little idiomatic. Prepositional verbs can be harder to understand.

## Trigger the workflow

> 1. Trigger the workflow https://github.com/ansible-community/ansible-build-data/actions/workflows/ansible-release.yml and fill in the release version (like 11.2.0) and the major version (like 11).

Author: ```suggestion
1. Trigger [the automated workflow on GHA](https://github.com/ansible-community/ansible-build-data/actions/workflows/ansible-release.yml) and fill in the release version (like 11.2.0) and the major version (like 11).
```

> 1. Trigger [the automated workflow on GHA](https://github.com/ansible-community/ansible-build-data/actions/workflows/ansible-release.yml) and fill in the release version (like 11.2.0) and the major version (like 11).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Trigger [the automated workflow](https://github.com/ansible-community/ansible-build-data/actions/workflows/ansible-release.yml) on the **Actions** tab of the repository and specify the release version, such as 11.2.0, and the major version, such as 11.
```

>    The process will create a PR in the `ansible-build-data` repository, and wait for approval before continuing with uploading the package to PyPI.

Reviewer 2: How/when does the approval happen?

Author: I've explained it in 5ad0ad71749cb2907b8cdd6115246bbd5d9b8045.

>    The process will create a PR in the `ansible-build-data` repository, and wait for approval before continuing with uploading the package to PyPI.

Reviewer 3: I believe this should be two sentences to avoid a comma splice.

Author: :+1: adffd2bdf9fcf79bb689070cb6fff2706cac8eb6.

> 2. Check out the PR in your `ansible-build-data` checkout and copy the updated porting guide into the `ansible-documentation` repository.

Reviewer 4: Double checkout is confusing here. Let's rephrase

Author: Like this?
```suggestion
2. Check out the PR in your `ansible-build-data` clone and copy the updated porting guide into the `ansible-documentation` repository.
```

> 2. Check out the PR in your `ansible-build-data` clone and copy the updated porting guide into the `ansible-documentation` repository.

Reviewer 2: Depending on the audience, you might want to fill in details - for example, the path to the updated porting guide, the path where it should go in the ansible-documentation repo.

Reviewer 2: Looks great, thanks @felixfontein.

   Create a PR for updating the porting guide for the `devel` branch of `ansible-documentation`.

> 3. Once both PRs (in `ansible-build-data` and `ansible-documentation`) are approved, merge the `ansible-build-data` PR and approve the next workflow step.

Author: ```suggestion
3. Once both PRs (in `ansible-build-data` and `ansible-documentation`) are approved, merge the `ansible-build-data` PR and approve the next workflow step (**in this order!** the next steps of the workflow require the PR to be merged!).
```

> 3. Once both PRs (in `ansible-build-data` and `ansible-documentation`) are approved, merge the `ansible-build-data` PR and approve the next workflow step (**in this order!** the next steps of the workflow require the PR to be merged!).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. After both PRs (in `ansible-build-data` and `ansible-documentation`) are approved, merge the `ansible-build-data` PR and approve the next workflow step (**in this order!** the next steps of the workflow require the PR to be merged!).
```

   This will upload the package to PyPI and tag the release in `ansible-build-data`.

> 4. Merge the porting guide PR, and backport it to the latest `stable-x` branches down to the ansible-core version that is included in this Ansible release.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Merge the porting guide PR, and backport it to the latest `stable-x` branches down to the ansible-core version that is included in the Ansible release.
```

> 5. Announce the release on the Forum, Matrix, and the mailing list.
> 
>     For that, run the following in the `${MAJOR_VERSION}` directory of the `ansible-build-data` checkout:
>     ```
>     antsibull-build announcements --send --data-dir . ${VERSION}
>     ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Announce the release on the Forum, Matrix, and the mailing list by running the following command in the `${MAJOR_VERSION}` directory of the `ansible-build-data` checkout:
    ```
    antsibull-build announcements --send --data-dir . ${VERSION}
    ```
```

> # How to release a new version of the Ansible Community Package - Automated Release Process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# How to release a new version of the Ansible Community Package — Automated Release Process
```

## Preamble

This document describes the (mostly) automated ansible community package release process.
The automated processes uses GitHub Actions to automate the [manual release process](release-process.md).

!!! note
    Throughout this page, placeholder values in code blocks are formatted as
    `${PLACEHOLDER_VALUE}` where `PLACEHOLDER_VALUE` describes the value to specify.

## Trigger the workflow

1. Trigger [the automated workflow](https://github.com/ansible-community/ansible-build-data/actions/workflows/ansible-release.yml) on the **Actions** tab of the repository and specify the release version, such as 11.2.0, and the major version, such as 11.
   The process will create a PR in the [`ansible-build-data` repository](https://github.com/ansible-community/ansible-build-data/).

>    Afterwards it will wait for approval before continuing with uploading the package to PyPI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Afterwards, it will wait for approval before continuing with uploading the package to PyPI.
```

>    All users with commit rights in the `ansible-build-data` repository will be informed with a notification once the approval is needed.

Reviewer: I believe only @ansible-community/release-management-wg is notified.

Author: Why do you think so? That group isn't mentioned in the workflow, so I would assume that GH notifies everyone with appropriate rights, which probably is the set of folks with commit rights.

Reviewer: I believe that's how the environment that @anweshadas created is set up. It's set in the repo settings, not the workflow file.

Author: @anweshadas can you confirm this?

Reviewer 4: > Why do you think so? That group isn't mentioned in the workflow, so I would assume that GH notifies everyone with appropriate rights, which probably is the set of folks with commit rights.

In GitHub environments, there's protection rules, of which one is "required reviewers". These are listed as GitHub usernames or teams. The maximum is 6 entries. Whoever is listed will be notified, I don't think this will notify accounts that aren't in those teams or lists.

Author: I don't have any way to verify this (I don't have access to the settings), so can someone with appropriate access please check this and confirm (or say what else it is)?

Reviewer 4: I don't have enough privileges in this repo to check this :(

Maybe @oraNod does?

Reviewer 3: Hi, plz excuse the delayed response. Just getting back from PTO...

It looks like @gotmax23 is correct and only folks in the `ansible-community/release-management-wg` group are notified. Here's a screenshot of the required reviewers section of the environment:

![image](https://github.com/ansible-community/ansible-build-data/assets/32749632/28e272fa-47f0-42f9-bae7-d4ef125a2372)

On a side note, I'm surprised that @felixfontein and @webknjaz don't have sufficient repo permissions. Should we address that?

Author: Thanks a lot! I've updated the paragraph in 81cc67840cdc38bf8b9e95557961b727c190dce4 and added a footnote explaining how this is configured.

Regarding repo permissions: I wouldn't mind having more permissions :) I have no idea who currently has more permissions and why the permissions are as they are...
